[Music]
yeah what is up guys happy here today
I'm here with monkey llamas away from
Iraq and how long have you been here
almost six fifteen years and today we're
gonna give you the raw truth about China
what it's like to live here as a
foreigner
what were the most difficult things in
the beginning do you actually need to
speak Chinese to live here how do you
get a Chinese girlfriend how do you a
Chinese guy friend okay we're gonna talk
about all these things including how to
start a company yet yeah watch the whole
video we're gonna have a lot of juicy
information and we're gonna help you
ease your way into China yeah there will
be time stamps of all the questions
listed in the description below because
I know it's a long video so watch
whatever interests you and then come
back and watch more enjoy high-five
where do you want to start fit okay so
well just start out some simple things
what was your first day like in China oh
my god it was like yeah six years ago I
came and I didn't know how to order food
so a friend of mine he told me just
point at anything and just saying and
pretty much that got me for the first
three months three months and then later
on I was like I should maybe roll up
into Chinese classes oh okay yes so yeah
you guys have to start studying it first
so when you first came to China why did
you come to China
so yeah it's there's two kind of there's
two stories one stories the fun one and
the boring one the boring one was there
because China is getting famous and
everybody started to see while China is
taking of the world and so I wanted to
explore the culture the mindset and the
market but the funny stories of my
father's partner back in Dubai he said
that you can learn Chinese in three
months so he and then he suggested my
dad to send his son and
going there in Chinese and click on
company translator I think you're
Chinese a little bit okay okay yes
survival I would say yes yes yes okay so
first thing first thing you did here you
enrolled in a Chinese program outside
yes like it was like a private tutoring
program okay what did you live in
without go okay in an apartment building
yeah you rented yeah okay and then you
enrolled in Chinua University's Master
program after a lot of screening though
okay after a lot of screening for civil
engineering yes
okay that was how long after you came
here after a month after a month yes
okay yes I know one of the reasons
actually I wanted to come to Chinua is
no way can learn Chinese in three months
that's for sure and I was like maybe the
master's degree with ground me in China
yeah to get the language so you're
forced to speak yeah but yeah but then I
fell in love with the country okay but
yeah I fell in love with the country and
I thought that maybe it will invest my
life here Wow yes wow that was how long
afterwards and after two years after two
years two years yeah let's talk about
that
oh yeah I'll tell you like at the first
first six to one year it was very hard
for me to be honest hard what why was a
hard for you in the first few years
first year food for start okay so even
China has a lot of delicious cuisines
mm-hmm but we as students were not even
exposed to those delicious cuisines on a
daily basis right so you really kind of
stuck with the canteen food bad well you
guys you're you're you only eat a third
yes yes and that's a kind of a challenge
for you
in China also I appreciate you know my
Middle Eastern food mm-hmm so I'm a
little bit of bias toward that okay but
that's it
Chinese food is not that bad I like it
yeah I like the can I like Chinese food
more than you do why I challenge you to
go anything an awful gene okay and you
don't want to do that I don't want you I
like it
okay I like it so weird interview that
yeah okay what did you fall in love with
so I'm I fell in love with the kind of
education system here mm-hmm
in a way is that we give you chance for
creativity all right you know and I
don't know about other universities that
I'm talking about Chippewa
they give you a room for creativity to
explore other areas rather than focus
you an are you into your own subject
right so I found the room of flexibility
into that so I took it
god imagine advantage of that and
explore explored my talents and I saw
that I might invest my talents in here
in in Beijing more than any place in the
world okay and I have been a lot of
places in the world
mm-hmm where this first off some cities
um so I've been most countries in Europe
I've been most countries in Asia fair
fair a number of countries in Middle
East not a lot traveling or just living
traveling and some cities I spent like
kind of a month or so oh wow nice yeah
what you liked about China is the the
the education the creativity yeah
the the fact that they want to they
invest on students what do you mean by
that let's say for example I I grew up
in Dubai right and so in Dubai
even though they chain right now but
before back in my time they have a
little bit of pressure no no I was
supported toward the local people more
than the foreigners but when I came here
it's kind of equalized see you know
whenever there's a like what's something
that you've got support for so yeah any
kind of projects and initiatives that is
happening in Changhua let me just
precisely say into more because having
studies in any other universities
whenever there is any project to
initiative they support that there has
to be one Chinese in one corner in that
project also any kind of investments any
kind of opportunities into
entrepreneurship and startups they
encourage and they invest on foreigners
ok yeah which is something that I didn't
see even in my own country in Iraq yeah
I mean it's always about the local about
the local local I see yeah she was
pretty like welcoming of international
students they love yeah the ground basis
of how Ching hua was started was the
agreement between a foreign country and
China oh yeah yeah what was the thing
that you hated the most when you first
got here like every question you ask is
like a big question and you have to know
exactly no I mean it's not it's not
simple like there's a lot of ups and
downs in Beijing as long as the same as
any other cities the number one that I
hate it was oh yeah there's internet
restriction yeah yeah I mean pretty much
always a very twitter addict alright
and the moment I landed here and I was
like okay let me check my Twitter and
then Rome no no I kept you know
scrolling why there's no feed I wanted
to see what is the feed in my Twitter
and then boom I found out that in China
you cannot access to many social media
but we got a VPN never owned actually
back in my time VPNs were
expensive not very close reach after two
years it became norm that's good yeah
but let me I I kind of you know when you
you put yourself in a in a very tough
situation and you come to appreciate it
in a positive way yeah
it made me focus on my studies seriously
oh yeah the first a yes also I was cut
out of any politics in the world on
special in my country so I wouldn't be
dragged down and or dragged away from my
studies okay so it really helped me a
lot but then I'm a social guy yeah I
have to be rejected what was the hardest
part about living here hardest part was
it the language yes definitely and the
thing that helped me is having any
Chinese friends how did you make that
Chinese friend so University so they
offer you a Chinese buddy to help you
throughout the journey right and I and
have a funny story about that okay I'll
tell you in a bit
but then they're on you you meet a lot
of you know American Chinese and
Canadian Chinese like me yes like like
how food so yeah the story about the
Chinua they told us before coming here
is to prepare a gift for to give it to
your Chinese buddy and so we have kind
of a cultural exchange gift yeah so you
know in in the Bible we don't have
really that much of cultural souvenirs
so I went all the way to the tallest
building in the world
norge Khalifa no yes and I bought an
expensive souvenir right at the top okay
and I didn't know I didn't know what to
buy it just you know improvised and I
got that gift wrapped it up with a you
know gift wrapping and everything and
Kim and I met the Chinese buddy and they
said okay now we will the start
exchanging the gift all right I'm so
proud giving that gift do you know what
he gave me no a to acquire bracelet
and this is better than others I have
another friend who got a bottle of water
Wow which is a bottle water yes so it
was kind of disappointing you still talk
to that person I don't know who that
person was but that was that one one
incident yeah I have I come across the
meaning a lot of a lot of amazing
Chinese there yeah okay sure
what about like your first month how did
you make your first friend my my
classmates okay in your in your tutoring
program okay but I have to be honest
with you guys like Chinese weren't or
didn't go abroad it is a little bit hard
for them to kind of integrate with other
foreigners so unique kind of to step it
up and reach to them and they come out
of their comfort zone you mean in terms
of language or just in terms of
interacting interacting but language has
to do a lot with mirth yes okay so I had
the one of the things that I really got
annoyed is to reaching out to Chinese
friends right
but eventually I figure out how to
bypass that joining activities with them
playing basketball
fencing going to the gym so like if
they're already there than like exactly
it's it's fun but still you have to you
know do the because I'll tell you I've
talked to many of those Chinese and they
said we are very socialized and
extrovert but we are afraid of you
ridicule
language right I was like man I was
making this III speak messed up English
so he doesn't need to be embarrassed
about that and so yeah it worked out
later on Wow okay yeah
Deveney tricks for making friends here
for girls yes and for guys you mean for
meeting girls or like I said for meeting
girls have a nice on tricks okay and
also for meeting guys
going to events and shine there you know
you don't have to shine I don't need to
tell you how to do that how do you how
do you mean guy friends here how do you
mean a breath cause our Jim first out
Oh Jim man let me tell you in a lot of
people in China special Chinese think
Chinua students are kind of nerds you
know they don't work out they don't
exercise but you got to see the guys in
my gym yeah they are like triple my size
I know I'm the skinny one there yeah so
choonhwa actually they have physical
education as a mandatory course every
semester yes so they are forced to
exercise I know and there's a supermodel
and I'm embarrassed I remember the booty
pooty mwah yes so yeah they encouraged
foreigners as well to to be a part of
those sports activities yeah okay yeah
Jim Jim I like that Jim also fencing
fancy basketball is a must all
basketball you know if you guys want to
come to cheer to China and generally
don't know how to play basketball that's
gonna be a huge problem you know we play
basketball with my professor with your
professor yeah okay so so basically
going to a lot of activities that people
are already there okay
and then you can just join them play
around yeah okay
what about for meeting girls oh so I
don't prefer meeting girls in my campus
on my campus for two reasons okay it's
the number one smart University in China
and you understand what I mean by that
okay okay second is that if if you
happens to have a girlfriend in Tijuana
and then you break up it's gonna be yeah
yeah but yeah activities outside I buy
them on the bright side it's a big
campus yes I'm going outside Chinese
Chinese girls don't like being direct do
you mean they don't like you being
directly Adam yeah like in general
II like you don't and they don't
appreciate aggressive flirting mmm if
you know what I mean okay so they
appreciate knowing you more in the way
to like for example first you ask your
WeChat not her number
all right no one uses numbers anyway
exactly here nobody I mean exactly that
but you have to formulate a story before
asking yeah you know if you tell her
like oh I like you and I need you reach
actual levels either slap yours I have
to like create a story and also as your
story as you go - sorry you know the the
teach me teach you English me Chinese
ancient okay okay well it's a new
teacher for exactly you have a
conversation and from that conversation
you you know what she likes kind of
activities and anything for example I
met a girl who likes to jog and I kind
of made her in a way oh man I think that
I love jogging suit I run maybe half a
kilo and over like out of breath yeah so
like oh oh my god I love jogging let's
talk together
did you talk together no
let's say not say other details okay
okay all right cool
yeah so yeah important is to formulate a
story for asking that we chat and then
when you get a richer you start you know
explore what she likes and importantly
importantly take her to a foreigner yes
a restaurant a foreign restaurant it's a
her or a foreign coffee shop mmm because
taking a taking her to a Chinese
restaurant it's this away you know yeah
it's boring maybe you take her to a for
Wow I'm Middle Eastern restaurant
Italian restaurant yeah yeah it's
special yeah so that's one of the tricks
I'm not gonna reveal more okay I want to
keep my secrets to myself yeah so we we
talked about how to meet friends we
talked about how hard it was in the
beginning where was some problems you
ran into that's um let's talk about the
environment
yeah how's the pollution we all always
hear that pollution is really bad in
major how was it it's it's not can I say
disgusting yeah I mean like just give me
the truth like I've heard it's getting
better in the recent years you're right
correct
so I I came in 2012 and it's from 2012
so I think for 2014 hmm we had black
days you know well what is it like the
visibility is almost zero like I can't
see like you cannot see to a meter in
front of you Wow and you can see that
back there
oh no really yes that and even you know
at that time at 2012 prior to that the
government was kind of trying to shine
they are shy about telling people about
the pollution but when it became you
know black days they seriously started
to say warrants and warnings even text
messages being so I don't go outside
where protection and everything
then how often would you get those how
we will having like only one good days
in a week in a week yes one good day and
the rest are like polluted okay but like
not totally black days so um above above
okay above okay yeah okay in a bad way
okay yeah so it's like worse yeah okay
yes exactly
okay okay but then they change from coal
to gas and suddenly we have more good
days than bad days hmm and by the way
went when Beijing has its good days
heaven yeah amazing
just like today yeah it's really good
crystal blue yeah good weather not not
to today's hot but it's a lot I mean
yeah but then good days not too hot not
too cold yeah I even compared to in
Dubai yeah we don't have that much of
pollution in Dubai
mm-hmm we have dust but the sky oh my
god I'm in love with this guy one of the
things that made me actually get
addicted in Beijing addicted to made you
you should come to Canada you're
addicted those guys like blue every day
you'd buy the code okay and then what
about now oh now yeah it's pretty much
cool I get to jog and exercise outside
more than indoors now yeah so you think
the pollutions gone way better now
yeah still but yeah yeah yeah there's
still some days where it's like pretty
bad I know I made a how bad is the air
pollution Beijing video right here it's
just like a short fun video like it up
yeah you sure fun video just telling you
a story of like my childhood it growing
up like I was getting sick every single
day yeah due to the pollution it's
annoying but now it's getting better and
let me tell you guys so when the
pollution became so bad the awareness
was so high about doing something and
many universities including
we're you know doing campaigns into
innovating how to curb that the issue
really and it worked a lot of learners
are doing startups about pollution Wow
yeah I like that yeah yeah so yeah even
if you live in a place that has a lot of
problems mm-hmm innovate do something
about it all right just like else yeah
so tell me about yourself what do you
get
oh yeah so we since allama started yeah
that's a food delivery yeah and other
companies are I don't know I use only a
llama we had a plastic disposal epidemic
right the number of it's called
disposals right yeah yeah yeah like
disposable bags boxes last day classics
yes it started to increase and nobody
was doing something about it
mm-hmm and also so that will eventually
turn into pollution is gonna affect our
environment so out of our of my own
challenge I thought maybe I should you
know start separating plastics and away
from by bio garbage okay and to maybe
become an active member into helping the
environment but their own I found out
the government themselves they mix
everything even a few separate them so I
felt devastated I felt you know my one
year of doing that was for nothing
mm-hmm and that attract me to find
people who wanted to do something about
it and we created a start-up how to fix
this issue okay so what do you guys do
we're creating an app an application for
people to sell their their plastics
online and it's pretty complex I cannot
really explain more for sure but that's
the simplest way to define our plastic
and then after the Saudis how does it
help solve the issue yes so you know and
your audience have to know that China is
to import plastics from around the world
so like in Canada and the US and most
European countries
- you know gather their recycled
plastics recyclable plastic sorry and
they ship it to China and China I used
to buy them but now since January 2018
China banned that and it was huge but
keep in mind that we started doing that
before that ban okay yeah so that helps
the loss and so well we so what happened
at that ban a lot of recyclable
companies had no shortage of recyclables
and again saw her so eventually the
government will have to dump those
plastics on the dump yard that's or burn
them and we're gonna get that pollution
the air pollution after all so we did is
that if we provide that application it's
the first project we have many project
right after that if we provided that
application we will speed up the process
of getting those recyclables all the way
to the factories yes okay so it's it's
pretty much complex I cannot go more
into that let's go yeah let's go man you
went from not knowing any Chinese to
actually starting a company and yeah
thanks to China thanks to China yeah
what do you do for fun yes oh I do a lot
oh man okay so gatherings for for
starters and night night going out some
night night out no notes
yeah night outs do you like go clubbing
uh at first yes but now no no no okay
yes I think I mean I got enough of that
yes thank you but yes we do a lot of
sporting activities okay sports Ross
li-ming's we do a lot of filming as well
tell me is youtuber yes
fellow youtuber yeah China they love
making videos yeah yes like doing oh
yeah torian's like short videos basic
like the vine of China oh my god you
guys have to see foreigners using going
in yeah
foreigners in China if they made videos
they become instant hit in the
if we can speak even a little Chinese
like instant rock star yeah
also Beijing itself the grave wall and
their historical areas every time you
discover a new place like exploring
around the city I've been here for six
years and I I'm an outdoor guy and
having just really like we discovered a
lot of places well yeah what's the most
interesting thing you've seen here a lot
of you know the first thing that was
interesting for me was a lot of Chinese
taking pictures of me and that's weird
and I can just do the ask or do they
just say first day they didn't ask but
you know back then I was in the volume I
see you know back people take me photos
please and now everybody's like you know
taking photos of you are coming to you
as I can you took photos of it and I was
like why am i famous or something yeah
and personally not it's something that
is normally here yes just like a
foreigner yes okay and I think also
because of the beard it's nice yeah it's
not quite the same
yeah I have a double here you're getting
that some feathers getting that okay
well what's uh what's a weirdest thing
you've seen here weirdest well there's
the weirdest thing I've ever seen but I
cannot say that you can say okay no I
know you don't want it that inspire you
know for me I'm comfortable but I don't
know I'm gonna create a controversy for
something
I don't know anything what's on that bed
okay it's let's keep it a mystery people
laugh in the comments he's gonna be in
our video series sake is it he's an ex
yeah this kid gives no exactly so
what would you tell yourself like six
years ago when you first come in here
don't get out of that Chinese class stay
do it a part time don't leave it you're
gonna have a lot of opportunities just
by speaking Chinese even without a
degree just speaking Chinese get you
somewhere yes really yes
so you why don't you go back yes I
usually notice of not going to class
anymore but I'm writing my PhD thesis
right now okay and it's pretty difficult
to write a thesis in English or in
English English is my second language
mm-hmm
other than Arabic yeah and then I have
to speak Chinese as well in a daily
basis okay
so sometimes I write Chinglish in my
thesis and that is not acceptable
yeah so it's very difficult and one of
the advices I want to give to your
audience is that if you're gonna come do
an English degree in China which is also
important because there are a lot of
international companies in Beijing and
they want you to have English degrees
but don't miss out on the Chinese
classes and also balance your friends
have some
some Chinese not that is so true yeah I
mean that's kind of what I've been doing
I have most of my classes in Chinese
actually yeah I think it's just more
interesting the the top is go deeper
exactly because for the English classes
they're kind of like on the surface
level and the Chinese classes they go
like way deeper more specific also for
friends and stuff like there's a big
difference between the people who came
into Ching hua university through the
legit way which is through the entrance
exam Cal Cal yes and international
students the con man yeah because with
the Gaucho only like 0.001 percent of
the people in China can make it in so
they're the top notch if you're making
friends with those people you're like
yeah you know you're learning some yes
yes but international students is quite
a bit easier easy to them right
especially with the Chinese thing but
right now now Chinua started to accept
only foreigners who can have HS k6o
which is you know what is the foreign
language exam you know about the night
TOEFL yeah TOEFL or IELTS yeah there's
like a lot yes so I mean that the most
famous in the world is TOEFL and IELTS
so you get to get the top score like the
closing score in order to be admitted
into one oh by the way and it's easier
for foreigners to be admitted not easy I
mean a little bit easy to be admitted
with English degree but it is difficult
with Chinese degree I have a lot of
foreigners who wanted to study bachelors
in Chinese and Xinhua they couldn't no
he couldn't be accepted
hmm yes Wow speaking of welcome it's
happening so many it happened yesterday
yeah yesterday we were filming I had
paid that and then that was like a
testing gun yeah she want me now which
was very cool we actually have a
joon-ha versus paid a video coming out
oh cool cool
Jinghua would be number one
I guess so yeah
anything else I should ask you know
maybe maybe also what I want to say that
if if you guys are counting to learn
Chinese by having a Chinese girlfriend
it works
you're 1% but now more and more Chinese
students are able to speak English so
you're not gonna get that much of
Chinese in the conversation and there
will be like a kind of a who will speak
the other person's language war okay no
I want to speak English no I want to
speak Chinese
no so like it becomes like we're just
practicing our languages yes instead of
like actual relationship yes and to be
honest a lot of people told me when I
when I came to to China is to you know
have Chinese girlfriends but I didn't
want to have a girlfriend just yeah of
course because of language even though
we will help a lot but now I have a
Chinese co-founder and she's awesome
shoutout to a he yeah yeah cool yeah I
think that's pretty much so thank you I
think that was a very good explanation
of what it's like to live in China from
a foreigners perspective because I can't
give you guys that since I already know
Chinese so I can communicate pretty well
which I can get a very envious about
that yeah so like I'm giving you like a
raw perspective from an actual foreigner
who doesn't speak Chinese thank you for
sharing all that like letting the truth
hang out sometimes that's a little bit
scary so if you guys like
entrepreneurship or you want to see the
business side of China go check out his
channel because that's what he's gonna
be focusing on where we get a point this
side over yeah yeah okay that's a
all right we have a bit of an audience
here but that's okay yeah so if you
wanna if you want to if you want to see
videos on entrepreneurship or business
in China go check out his channel
what does click in my face
hahahaha put it right there I want to
understand hi fools entrepreneurial
journey also his YouTube journey because
that's a that's how I knew how helpful
yeah he found me the car
yes I actually I was impressed and in
love with his videos the first time I
there's a first first moment love what
he called that first love at first sight
yes and I was like dude into going to
and I really get I really understand the
struggle of being a youtuber especially
in China so we're gonna talk about that
too
yeah and yeah yeah we're just you'll get
to know me more yeah so here's two
things one you can go watch the other
video that I did on his channel talking
about my life getting to know me a
little bit getting to know the youtubes
struggle right here go subscribe to his
channel and then number two is if you
have any questions about China
whatsoever you can leave them below and
we'll answer them will you answer our ok
I did that before yeah yeah so if you so
if you have any questions about China
whatsoever any aspect of China you can
leave them in the comment section below
and we will answer them yeah okay that
is our promise to you yeah hope this
helped you a little bit you know yeah
it's scary coming to your new country
when you don't know anything
yeah so and it's good to have channels
like this to kind of soothe our way in
this country yeah yes cool all right
guys love you
one whatever to say a final goodbye that
can one sentence or something
China is interacting with the the
Chinese I love them
yeah that's beautiful thank you so much